For systemd systems, the DNS server is generated by the `systemd-resolved` program.

For legacy SysVinit systems, that’s handled in the `/etc/resolv.conf` configuration file:
```
domain mydomain.com
search mytest.com
nameserver 192.168.1.1
```

# Basics
- The term `resolver` refers not to a special application, but to the resolver library. This is a collection of functions that can be found in the standard C library. The central routines are `gethostbyname` and `gethostbyaddr `, which look up all IP addresses associated with a host name, and vice versa. They may be configured to simply look up the information in `hosts`, to query a number of DNS name servers, or to use the hosts database of Network Information Service (NIS).
- The `resolver` functions read configuration files when they are invoked. From these configuration files, they determine what databases to query, in which order, and other details relevant to how you've configured your environment. The older Linux standard library, `libc`, used `/etc/host.conf` as its master configuration file, but Version 2 of the GNU standard library, `glibc`, uses `/etc/nsswitch.conf`.

# `/etc/host.conf`
- `multi on/off` determines if a host in `/etc/hosts` is allowed to have several IP addresses, which is usually referred to as being **multi-homed**

# `nameserver`
- e.g. `nameserver 8.8.8.8`
- If this file does not exist or is empty, the resolver assumes the name server is on your local host.
- If you specify several name servers by giving the name server option several times, they are tried in the order given. You should therefore put the most reliable server first. The current implementation allows you to have up to three name server statements in resolv.conf.

# domain
- let you use shortcut names for hosts in your local domain
- e.g. `domain mathematics.groucho.edu` causes a hostname resolving `gauss` to perform
  1. search hostnane `gauss`
  2. if step 1 fails, search hostname `gauss.mathematics.groucho.edu`

# search
- similar to `domain`, but allows multiple domain names (separated by spaces or tabs)
- is mutually exclusive with `domain` (i.e. declare only one of them)
- For some applications, these bogus host lookups can be a security problem. Therefore, you should usually limit the domains on your search list to your local organization
